This memo is to request permission to establish a training program and seek approval to operate small Unmanned Aerial Systems. 

The Coast Guard Academy is seeking permission to operate sUAS for the purpose of academic reseach. sUAS have become an incredible tool for academic research, geographic information system data collection, and miltary applications. 

Cadet and faculty operators desiring to operate these aircraft would be required to complete a qualfication process. The qualfication process will include completing a JQR packet for an aircraft, a practical and written test with the Academy's sUAS saftey officer, and complete the FAA's Part 107 Remote Pilot Knowledge Test or Part 107 small Unmanned Aircraft Systems (sUAS) ALC-451 exam for those with a traditioanl pilots lisence. 

The aircraft to be procured and operated will be fixed wing with optional vertical take off and landing capability similar to the Birds Eye View Fire Fly 6 PRO. Aircraft will be around 8 lbs and be made of eppanded polyproplene foam. The desired aircraft will have a wing span of approxiamtely 50 inches and be able to carry varying imaging capabilties and sesnors. 

Currently, cadets and faculty can operate the aircaft indoors in fifth deck roland and at Air Station Cape Cod in a desirganted restricted airspace. In order to operate the aircraft on board the Academy and in other locations permission has to been granted from CG-711 and the FAA. The primary option as endorsed by CG-711 is to utilize an academic exception to the part 107 FAA ruling which would grant us the ability to fly anywhere under 500 feet above ground level within line of sight of the aircraft. The second option is to seek out a certificate of authorization (COA) from the FAA routing through CG-711. Per the FAA, the COA can request any exception to operations meaning that we can request specific operating parameters, ie altitude, time of day, weight of aircraft, geographic area and they will approve each COA on a case by case basis. However, if the request meets certain parameters, (under 200 ft AGL, line of sight, not within 5 miles of an airport, daylight opertations) the COA will be automatically approved.



Bullets for the Dean:

Intrested in pursueing sUAS for cadet research

Several people on campus with operator liscence or will have operators lisecne

already have permission to fly in restricted airspace at airsta cape cod and on board the academy for indoor flight roland

working with CG-711 to use academic reserach expetion to fly at the academy, if fails, working with CG-711 and FAA to get a COA for flight.

Like to get unit as soon as possible becuase we have several motivated people and they will be transfering/ graduating soon and we need them to train other before they leave